well everybody in this city knows the
numbers by heart but we're pleased to be
joined by one of the greatest workers
winners scorers entertainers the history
of sports has ever seen and he's also a
pretty incredible public speaker so like
the Utah Jazz I'm kind of going to get
out of the way here in a second and and
let him run with
it
but Utah is bad if you're retiring Utah
is a team you want to
play worked out pretty well for Michael
worked out well for me if you're
retiring that's the last game you want
to have all right you know what since
since you've kind of piggybacked with
that that day did you kind of know this
is the way it might unfold I may kind of
go crazy tonight no man I was uh let's
see that day was a pretty normal day for
me in terms of you I was at the office
till about
4:30 and uh left the office went home
got changed went to the game it was like
I'm showing up ready to play just like I
normally do and and uh yeah I just
remember being extremely excited like
there was such a s kind of a sad a
sadness that was kind of coding Staple
Center I didn't want to have that I
didn't want people to be sad cuz I
wasn't sad I was happy and I wanted to
make sure I gave them something to uh to
celebrate versus you know be sad over I
mean really maybe the most memorable
goodbye ever in NBA history and 3 months
have passed and I think a lot of people
thought you might go a little crazy
without basketball but you look sane you
look you look good I I mean I've never
really been completely sane so you know
it's no but I'm good how do you how do
you keep it I mean you have all this
fuel you have all this you know
competitive desire in you where do you
pour it out right now well I mean the
biggest challenge I think for us
athletes is to find what comes next you
know for a lot of us Sports is such a
natural thing you're kind of born into
it or you discover it because you have
you know physical advantages or what
have you but the thing about sports is
that you know at some point it's going
to come to an end and for a lot of us it
comes to an end at a very early age I
mean I played 20 years and I'll be 38 in
August still relatively Young by most
standards I would think and so what
comes next so you have to do a lot of
work I me I started working at the age
of 20 21 years old trying to figure out
what that next thing is going to be and
it's very very difficult do you last
night at the spbs you got up and
basically said I'm not through you know
I'm not done what does that look like
like what does this second act for Kobe
Bryant look like it's going to be well I
mean just like in basketball I mean I
can sit here and say okay I have a plan
this is what it's going to be this is
how it's going to happen but just like
my career it's not going to work out
that way the most important thing is to
figure out what it is that you're
passionate about and for me it is
storytelling it's finding out ways to
inspire the next generation of athletes
and how do we do that how do we tell
stories that um that that jump from the
page and jump from the screen uh into
the individual that are watching them
and that becomes something that's
actionable it's not something that they
are watching for simple simple
entertainment but it's something that
they can actually use and learn from an
embody um and that's what gets me on so
you've launched a Film Production
Company Kobe Studios how what's your
process like as far as finding a project
what do you do to seek that
out well the biggest challenge that we
have is is uh you know I'm a big uh
student of the class classics
and it's very hard to find writers who
have studied the classics but were also
uh great athletes and I think it's
important to try to find the combination
of those two who understand Sports and
understand how Sports relates to life
and those little nuances and details
that comes with training but also
understanding mythology and uh fantasy
and things of that sort um so we create
most of the stories internally and then
it's about finding the writers and
allowing them to do what they do best
and take these stories to yet another
level is it the story that usually
appeals to you or is it the character
well it starts with the character first
I mean you can sit there and have a top
view of what the story is going to be
all right it's going to start here you
know kind of with the art with the
thread of the narrative is going to be
right but the character is what really
is going to draw that out and what we
found is you have a great story but the
character that you've um built or
created you feel like will respond to a
situation a little differently so that
changes the story so we'll wind up
sitting on like 20 30 stories that we
started out and saying this is what the
story is going to be but because of the
characters that we've developed now we
have like 20 or 30 stories just sheld
waiting for the right character to come
along to bring those back to life have
you found any character who's as rich as
you as Rich a character as
you well I mean I I think you know the
stories that we tell um center around
the character and I think it doesn't
matter where you Center the
story the setting backdrop uh if you're
dealing with the conf the conflict the
inner conflict of a person of a
character the conflict that that goes on
within their heart then the story can
literally take place anywhere right but
it's finding those levels of complexity
within the character and uh seeing how
to respond to those situations I mean
you've talked about that all last year
that this idea that you did play a
character at times in your career black
mamba was a character for maniacal wake
up at 400 a.m. beat every CER character
but that's also sort of your identity
too right I mean where did the character
end and the real person begin well I
mean they're all like bits and pieces of
ourselves I think we all have you know
parts of ourselves that um are extremely
complicated I mean none of us are just
simply one thing right we all have those
moments and and by creating the Black
Mamba what that helped me do was
identify when the flip that switch right
it gave me something tangible so when I
step on the court to perform I
understand this is the mentality I'm I'm
getting into which is different than you
know Kobe Bryant a father and husband
and so forth right friend uh when I step
in between those lines this is who I
become so it's just my own personal form
of Storytelling that helps inspire me
and keeps me focused when was that you
think when did you have that sort of
realization uh it was around 200 uh 2004
2005 did I mean you have one project
you're working on that I know my bosses
and I are really excited about your dear
basketball poem that was the way you
announc your retirement you're sting
that to an animated series how did that
when did you kind of realize that you
wanted that to be bigger than a
poem well it kind of just happened
organically you know I I I I was looking
for ways to work with Glenn Keane and
John Williams and um I thought it was
interesting to to take a an athletes
perspective or the story a personal
story of an athlete and then seeing if
you could then transition that and a
comping piece of Animation you know
Fairy Tales come from
somewhere right and if you look around
at all the athletes even everybody here
sitting in this room we all have our own
personal fairy tales so there's no
different than in animating my dear
basketball L than there is in
animating Snow White story they're all
fairy tales in our own way so that was
opportunity to work with Glenn and so he
and I sat down we talked about it he
saw um the story and the complexity
within it and uh decided to take the
project on and John Williams I mean I
we've known each other for a very very
long time and uh you know I was uh I was
really excited to hear his level of
excitement and being part of the project
do you have a sense for how you want
that to look how you want it to go or is
it still is that still very formative
well the hard part of my job is over
like the biggest thing that I did was to
sit there on my phone and write the damn
thing and then after that
bringing Glen Keane on and John Williams
on and letting them do what they do best
so for example we just had a working
session a few days ago with uh with
Glenn and and I'm really just looking at
the details of
things every little detail when I talk
about rolling up tube socks you exactly
how is that how does that happen how do
you actually roll up these tube socks
right when I'm doing training as a kid
and you know shooting in my room or
doing drills in the bath what where the
actual drills that I was doing what was
the footwork right what were the
placement what was the placement of the
ball and the hand on the ball as I was
shooting all those little details are
extremely important because I want kids
to be able to view the piece of
animation and understand that every
detail was cared for so if they want to
learn something about the game all they
need to do is look at the animation and
the answers are right there I don't need
to sit in front of a TV and comment
commentate to you about what should be
done I can put it through story I can
put it in the animation you're in a a
city where there are obviously millions
of experts right here everybody's at
your fingertips you can get in every
door you want where do you go for the
inspiration or the
council just in this city
alone well I mean I I'm very fortunate
um to be able to pick up the phone and
speak to Glen Kean and John Williams and
Steven Spielberg's of the world JJ
Abrams and people that sort and and the
beauty beautiful thing about that is
that they're extremely honest and very
direct
right they'll tell you because they want
you to do the best job that you possibly
can so um I'm known for just cold
calling people you I'll just pick up a
phone call somebody and say hey tell me
about this or like that's how I got to
know John Williams I called John
Williams I said let's grab lunch he's
like all right cool so we sat down he
said okay so what do you what do you
want to talk about said well tell me how
you composed
everything he's like well that's a long
story I said well I got all day so you
got all time got all day how do people
react to those calls though seriously
because I I know you're kind of you are
kind of famous for that and I think
people probably do double takes when
they get that phone call is it ever
funny or what are those calls like yeah
I mean they're initially
um shocked like why are you calling me I
mean our disciplines could be any more
different but like in John's example um
I I felt like we all know his music and
how timeless it is what makes it
Timeless what's this process How does it
go about creating that step by step
because I think that there was something
there that I could learn from his
process that I can incorporate into how
I manage a basketball game or how I
prepare for a basketball game and there
was he looked at things in in in
individually right from breaking down
the instruments um and then getting kind
of the the
rhythm of of of of the theme but he
started first with just individual
instruments and the tonality of them and
then looks at the grand scheme of things
I said in bass maybe that's what I need
to do because generally generally as a
basketball player you look at the game
in his totality and then you break it
down from there so after speaking with
John I started looking at things at the
at the smallest level individually at
you from my teammates and then to the
opposition and uh that gave me a greater
control over the entire landscape of the
game and that came from having lunch
with John and hearing his process you're
obviously an obsessed basketball player
you sound a little bit obsessed are are
you obsessed with this too or just or is
it not or is it impossible to reach that
level no it it I mean for better for
worse it's there so there's nothing I
can do about it now I mean I you know
for this for this yeah for story time I
mean it's there I mean I can't it is
what it is but does that tell you does
that tell you it's
right well I mean it's whether it's
right or wrong I don't know but it feels
right to me I mean this is what I enjoy
doing I think you know the biggest
mistake we can make is kind of sit
around and say okay what's the biggest
industry can that we can get into and I
I I made that mistake it was like okay
what am I going to do next all right
what's the biggest industry I can get
into that's the wrong move man you got
to look at what do you love doing what
do you get enjoyment out of doing and
once I found it was storytelling and
looking at kids and how they respond to
the story and what they learn from the
story that's what's most fun for me it
was pretty easy decision was there a
light bulb moment there like was it
reading something to the girls or or did
it just kind of happen over time no I do
Mo I do like 90% of my ideas come from
the
shower I don't know there's something
about the hot water or something like
knock's ideas loose you know what I mean
so like the Muse film and you know all
these stories that are coming the dear
basketball letter and like all that
stuff it all came from standing in the
shower for like 20 minutes Rondo keeps a
notepad next to the shower do do you got
the notepad next to the shower or no no
because I don't I
don't I first think of why this piece
needs to exist that's the hardest part
is is thinking like what is the purpose
of this piece right what is the core of
it and once once I nail the core of this
piece is what is it exactly that I'm
trying to say then the writing portion
of it is pretty easy has there been one
yet has there been a topic or a subject
where you've said yes that that
resonates with
me well I mean yeah I mean it's always
the the The Duality that we all face as
people but nothing specific I mean has
there one been one specifically that
you've said well not well there there
are basketball stories that we've
created there are you know uh soccer
stories that we created there business
business management stories that we've
created but it's not the what is not the
most important thing you know what I'm
saying it's The Who and the why that's
the most important thing you those are
the most interesting questions I don't
care which show you're watching you're
not watching the show because of the
setting of the show you're watching it
because of the question of who you're
watching and why do they do what they do
you know it's those two things then what
they do um becomes an interesting and
entertaining backdrop I mean you've been
discussing this for probably two years
you even when you were playing you were
talking about this you were going to the
office you were passionate about it is
that something that you talk to other
athletes about kind of needing to hone
in on this now before they're done
rather than have that moment when you
wake up the night the morning after you
score 60 and say what now sure do sure
do we talk about it often and uh it's
very very important you know it's hard
when you do something for so many years
and um you start being defined through
what you do and uh it's easy for us to
kind of lose our way and think that what
we do Isa is essentially who we are and
that couldn't be further from the truth
you you have to continue to evolve you
have to continue to reinvent continue to
challenge continue to grow and it's uh
it's hard work to do it but has to be
done so you still shoot ever not really
H not really I mean I'm at that phase
right now where it's like you know maybe
I'll mature enough to say okay plan
basketball just for fun it's cool to do
but it's like you know if I'm not
playing basketball like to be the best
at it then why would I do it Newport y
yeah I haven't matured enough to just go
out there and just shoot yeah you you
are do you watch this stuff I mean you
watching Summer League or you're not
like firing off any tweets no a little
bit a little bit a little bit I mean
that's uh I
think I think from a broadcasting
perspective we can certainly
certainly decrease the length of these
games cuz I can't make it through four
hours of basketball but there's no text
to D'angelo in the middle of summer
league that that's not happening no no
mean like I'll watch every now like like
the finals for example I was able to
catch second half of game seven um I'm
I'm obsessive about what I'm doing now
yeah I don't play basketball anymore but
I if I have time I'll sit and I'll watch
it so when you wake up in the morning or
when you go to bed at night it's not
thoughts of basketball in your head it's
thoughts about what the next project is
going to be or how you're going to
attack a given not even the next project
it's like okay where where am I going to
find the right team where are these
people out there that are frustrated
writers or athletes that have a passion
for writing these beautiful
stories but have no Outlet to do it or
they're being bogged down by the red
tape uh and not being able to write
freely and uh those are the ones that
I'm look where can I find those people
and then bring them in and allow them to
create create and to create freely and
um that's what that's what keeps me up
what's a job interview like with Kobe
Bryant nothing more than conversation
nothing more than conversation man like
we can sit down and you can you know if
I if I feel like you understand the
connection
of that surrounds all of us if you
understand basketball is the same thing
as film making filmm is the same thing
as painting painting is the same thing
as writing and writing is the same thing
as a lion who chases the gazelle
I mean all these things are connected
and understanding the Oneness of the
nature of these things uh tells me that
you get it and then you're hired go
write something that's freaking
amazing simple and you're finding those
people how how do you find those people
that's that's the hard part because it's
not like you can just say yeah email put
set out this question and then get this
very detailed email response so a lot of
it's been Word of Mouth um and uh doing
a lot a lot of digging and trying to
find the right person so it's it's
difficult
I want to remind everybody if you want
to ask any questions for Kobe to tweet
the hashtag Sports and ENT um and I'll
ask him be able to ask him a couple
questions here um when you look back now
at your career do you do you feel like
it was a story like we're talking a lot
about storytelling about kind of film
making do you feel as though it was a
story from the beginning that you were
kind of the main character in well I
mean we're all the main characters in
our own
films you know what I mean like we're
all like if this was VR for example this
VR experience right now in the VR
experience we're all here we're all in
the same story but how individually
everybody got here is completely
different so if I'm looking at this VR
perspect film from your perspective I'm
getting a completely different
experience how you got here but yet here
you are right so from that perspective
you are the main character character
right we're all just supporting actors
so it depends on what lens that you're
looking at it through and so from my
perspective yeah I'm obviously the main
character because I'm the one living
through it did you have you looked back
at that Ian you filmed everything from
last season did you look back at that
footage yet have you kind of explored
that no no no we uh uh editor um and uh
who's great name is Jim hesan one of the
best editors around uh that's his
responsibility to literally go through
these hours upon hour hours and hours
and hours of footage and uh find
a find a great narrative there has it
did anything from your basketball career
prepare you for this or are they so
different no everything I mean every
it's the same thing same thing you know
the discipline changes but the uh the
commitment the attention to detail like
the the the core competencies of it do
not
change only the industry changes
building a championship team in
basketball is the same as building a
championship team and business so when
you're looking at building your staff at
making hires you're looking at it the
same way as it's the same absolutely the
same thing and it's not necessarily the
skill of an individual person but it's
how those skills fit in with the group
right and how how that group challenges
each other to bring out the best in each
other and it's not just you know
everybody agreeing with you you know if
you have a bunch of people in the room
and they're all agreeing you probably
just got to break the team up
you know you got to
have disagreement you have to have
different perspectives and uh so I think
that friction is what creates creates
something Timeless eventually yeah
you've always believed in like that that
conflict is healthy right well yeah I
mean I I think that's what that's that's
what challenges our
views it helps us to kind of think a
little deeper about our perspective or
what we believe to be true and that only
either changes our point of view or
sharpens our point of
view let me uh get some questions here
I'm sure there will only be like um
should there only be like
10,000 um let's see here somebody asked
have you chat chatted with Magic Johnson
any tips and challenges of owning an ad
agency of owning an ad agency yeah
challenges of owning an ad agency um
well yeah I mean I owned an ad Agency
for quite some time and
what personally I didn't don't like
about the Ad Agency business is um the
lack of creative
control you know like I you know I don't
feel like creating something and then
having to sell it to
you I think that's tough to be in for me
personally you know I think it's it's uh
you know I like allowing the artist to
create and then having their work speak
for itself versus them feeling like they
have to defend their work so I mean
that's what challenging for the ad world
for me personally I think I know the
answer to this one but I'm not sure
what's your favorite movie or TV show of
all time favorite movie of TV show man
that's
tough thought you I thought you're a
Modern Family Guy yeah I love Modern
Family TV show I just literally B binge
watched Game of Thrones in like a week
like the whole series from like start to
the end like a week um films you know uh
it varies from Star Wars to Raging Bull
to it goes all over the place how's your
franchise with Nike affected now that
you're off the court it's really not I
mean it's it's what we've done is um
what we've tried to do is youve tried to
build a business that's that's based on
Innovation and based on performance um
versus being based on the
individual if it's based on the
individual's name then when that
individual retires where does the brand
go right but if the brand is built on
Innovation it's built on performance I
feel like we've built something that
goes beyond the career of the athlete
and of the player and so so far
consumers seem to love our product and
what we create from a per performance
perspective so I don't really see it
changing much toward last season I mean
it was really it was really amazing to
watch every game you played the lines
outside these locker rooms all the young
players kind of waiting to to introduce
themselves to you to get a pair of shoes
from you you know I don't know if they'd
been intimidated before to come up to
you in that kind of way but have you
kind of have some of those relationships
maintained have you sort of been in
touch with that generation more than
before yeah I talk to a lot of them um
often you know they'll come to me for
advice or uh opinions and things of that
nature it's it is different than it used
to be when I was competing for a
championship I mean it's if you came to
me and asked me for autograph I mean
that's
like you know it's like a blood in the
water for a shark man stab with a pen oh
my God that's weakness to me you know
but as I got older I mean it's
completely different now I I see the
beauty and helping the Next Generation
helping them be better so did that I
mean did you kind of soften with that
last year or was it more circumstance
realiz ccum we won 17 games I don't
think we're playing in June right right
right so it's not I'm not necessarily a
threat and you know like LeBron and
Cleveland is not a threat to what I'm
doing here winning trying to win 18
games who's going to be that I mean
who's going to take that role now that
you mentioned LeBron you know now KD
left his team went to another one of
these super teams who's going to take
that mantle that you had where you were
you were kind of the Ambassador for
competitiveness in the
NBA um well I mean you
know remains to be seen I guess I mean I
don't know if anybody needs to be that I
mean you know everybody's different
players should just be themselves and I
think uh the league is set up to be an
amazing league for for years to come
with the players that we have someone in
the audience asked Kobe would you ever
consider coaching basketball at any
level I didn't even get to the end of
the question nope only soccer only AYSO
I'm not coaching any not even that no
man no like I I like I'll with my kids
like I'll show them some basketball tips
I'll take them outside and play and
stuff like that but but that but that's
that's about it man but why
because because you lack the patience
because they don't have your drive
what's the
reason well you know I I love teaching
um I just think you know I my
personality if I'm going to do something
then I need I'm going to do it 100% and
focus and dedicate time to it and
resources to it so I could coach a team
of 12 players or I can create stories
that um teach the same things that I can
teach coaching but instead of reaching
12 players I can reach Millions more and
you I think that's a you if I'm going to
invest my time I think you want to go
with something that has a greater
multiple than coaching 12 players last
night you mentioned when you were at the
SBS you mentioned kind of the next
generation are most of the stories
you're conceiving or you're envisioning
aimed at children or at teens or are
they aimed at kind of us all well I mean
it's it's the story telling is always a
funny thing because when you sit down
with people they always want to know
okay is this for the children's Market
this is for young adults what who is
this for and uh you know I think the
only thing that changes really is the
language and the Simplicity of the story
so that's it's easily
digestible um for kids um but if we're
not creating a story that we all can
enjoy uh then we're not doing our job
like if I can't write a story from my
10-year-old daughter about the game of
basketball but have that story have so
much detail about certain strategical
things about the game of basketball at a
really high level that Kevin Durant will
read the story and pick up something
from if we don't do that we are not
doing our jobs and that's that's not
just for basketball I mean that's for
soccer that's for tennis that's for
everything there's certain details and
nuances that the best and the best only
know that need to be communicated what
were some of them for
you well man that list goes on and on
and on and on I mean I can sit here and
talk
about um but maybe we have a lot of cuz
I'm about to get really
basketball nerdy here right but so if
you watch a game and you watch a player
throw a pump
fake okay throw a pump fake when you see
your player pump fake they generally if
they're right-handed the right leg
always goes behind right I'm demonstrate
what the hell so player gets the ball
they throw a pump fake they do this
right see how the back leg go go back
who the hell is going to shoot the ball
from that
position nobody right so why would you
fall for that pump fake not a million
years right so if a person's going to
pump fake and you're looking at his foot
and he's in that position you know he's
not going to shoot he's going to drive
the ball you just back up right now if
they're in this position now you know
that's a real threat right and it's
those level is that is that attention to
detail that we want to put into the
stories um because I think that raises
the level of awareness that these kids
have and they grow up to be you know
very detail oriented when it comes to
their craft well that might be as close
as we get to seeing a Kobe Bryant pump
fake for a while so y for sure might be
the last one thank you for being here
you got it man appreciate it thank
[Applause]